README.md, before:

# pure-vue
It's [Vue](https://vuejs.org/), it's [PureScript](https://www.purescript.org/). Simple as that.

```html
<!-- Main.vue -->
<template>
  <button @click="increment">
    Count is: {{ count }}
  </button>
<template>

<script lang="purescript">
import Prelude
import Effect (Effect)
import PureVue (Ref (ref, readonly), Bindings, expose, set, get)

count :: Ref String Int
count = ref "count" 0

increment :: Ref String (Effect Unit)
increment = readonly "increment" $ do
  value <- get count
  set count (value + 1)

setup :: Effect Bindings
setup = expose count <> expose increment
</script>
```

Normally we use [ELM based](https://guide.elm-lang.org/architecture) design to deal with JS rendering libraries in PureScript, but I would like to try a new approach with something more similar to Vue Composition API + SFC.

The central idea is, instead of dealing with Vue as a side-effect free library, use a DSL to compute things and interact with components through the setup hook of Vue components. We are still studying the feasability and effort of doing this without bringing too much noise to the code.

The build process would be something like this:

```
vite build -> SFC compiler -> rollup purs -> SFC compiler (embed setup hook) -> component JS module
```

The advantage of doing this way is that the boilerplate required to build Vue SFC with PureScript is almostly done ([with Vite](https://vitejs.dev)). It also keeps the API isomorphic with Vue allowing a much smaller learning path to PureScript.

## Differences from Vue

- PureScript only allows side-effects inside the `Effect` monad, for that reason we can only access or mutate a `Ref` value inside an `Effect` monad.
- Differently from Vue, we don't expect that you use `ref` ~only~ inside setup hook, our `ref` is just a type constructor and does not generate side-effects, the same applies for `readonly`.
- `expose` always returns `Effect Bindings`, Bindings is just an object on the JS side, appending many `exposes` will create a single `Bidings` with everything exposed so far.

⚠️ This is a Work in Progress

Current Status: [POC planning](https://github.com/klarkc/pure-vue/issues/2)
<img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=1909a3af-ecab-4ef6-ae35-7bc65052c246" />

Commit message:

doc: add differences from PureScript

README.md, after:

# pure-vue
It's [Vue](https://vuejs.org/), it's [PureScript](https://www.purescript.org/). Simple as that.

```html
<!-- Main.vue -->
<template>
  <button @click="increment">
    Count is: {{ count }}
  </button>
<template>

<script lang="purescript">
import Prelude
import Effect (Effect)
import PureVue (Ref (ref, readonly), Bindings, expose, set, get)

count :: Ref String Int
count = ref "count" 0

increment :: Ref String (Effect Unit)
increment = readonly "increment" $ do
  value <- get count
  set count (value + 1)

setup :: Effect Bindings
setup = expose count <> expose increment
</script>
```

Normally we use [ELM based](https://guide.elm-lang.org/architecture) design to deal with JS rendering libraries in PureScript, but I would like to try a new approach with something more similar to Vue Composition API + SFC.

The central idea is, instead of dealing with Vue as a side-effect free library, use a DSL to compute things and interact with components through the setup hook of Vue components. We are still studying the feasability and effort of doing this without bringing too much noise to the code.

The build process would be something like this:

```
vite build -> SFC compiler -> rollup purs -> SFC compiler (embed setup hook) -> component JS module
```

The advantage of doing this way is that the boilerplate required to build Vue SFC with PureScript is almostly done ([with Vite](https://vitejs.dev)). It also keeps the API isomorphic with Vue allowing a much smaller learning path to PureScript.

## Differences from Vue

- PureScript only allows side-effects inside the `Effect` monad, for that reason we can only access or mutate a `Ref` value inside an `Effect` monad.
- Differently from Vue, we don't expect that you use `ref` ~only~ inside setup hook, our `ref` is just a type constructor and does not generate side-effects, the same applies for `readonly`.
- `expose` always returns `Effect Bindings`, where `Bindings` is a record that represents an object in the JavaScript side, appending many `Effect Bindings` will create a single `Effect Bidings` with everything exposed so far.

## Differences from PureScript

- We don't define a module with `module` keyword, the module definition is injected by the SFC compiler before purs compilation.
- The only exported function is setup, that is used as [setup hook](https://vuejs.org/api/composition-api-setup.html) in component options by the SFC compiler.
- `expose` exposes a function to the Vue template, as JavaScript compiled code ([more about templates](https://vuejs.org/guide/essentials/template-syntax.html))

⚠️ This is a Work in Progress

Current Status: [POC planning](https://github.com/klarkc/pure-vue/issues/2)
<img src="https://static.scarf.sh/a.png?x-pxid=1909a3af-ecab-4ef6-ae35-7bc65052c246" />
